AIM: A case study on public static void main(250 words)  
Case study:  
The SOURCE-CODE structure of a simple java SOURCE-CODE is given below 
with different steps  
Step-1: Click start+run and then type notepad in run dialog box and click OK. It 
displays Notepad. 
Step-2: In run dialogbox type cmd and click OK. It displays command prompt.  
Step-3: Type the following SOURCE-CODE in the Notepad and save the 
SOURCE-CODE as “example.java” in a current working directory. 
class example  
{  
public static void main(String args[])  
{  
System.out.println(“Welcome”);  
}  
}  
Step-4 (Compilation): To compile the program type the following in current 
working directory and then click enter.  
c:\xxxx >javac example.java  
Step-5 (Execution): To run the program type the following in current working 
directory and then click enter.  
c:\xxxx>java example 
Explanation:  
• Generally the file name and class name should be same. If it is not same then 
the java file can be compiled but it cannot be executed. That is when 
execution it gives the following error  
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: ex 
• In “public static void main(String args[])” statement 
• public is an access specifier. If a class is visible to all classes then public is 
used 
• main() must be declared as public since it must be called by outside of its 
class. 
• The keyword static allows main() to be called without creating object of the 
class. 
• The keyword void represents that main( ) does not return a value. 
• The main method contains one parameter String args[]. 
• We can send some input values (arguments) at run time to the String args[] 
of the main method . These arguments are called command line arguments. 
These command line arguments are passed at the command prompt. 
• In System.out.println("Welcome"); statement 
• System is a predefined class that provides access to the system. 
• out is the OUT-PUT stream. 
• println() method display the OUT-PUT in different lines. If we use print() 
method it display the OUT-PUT in the same line 